"Improving the world we live in"

About Us

The Eswatini Standards Authority (ESWASA) is a government parastatal organisation within the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Trade (MCIT) that was established under the Standards and Quality Act (10) 2003, amended in 2023.
ESWASA, being the National Standards Body of Eswatini, is mandated by this Act to advance quality and standards in local businesses, government, and industry.

Vision
A competitive and Sustainable Trade Environment informed by e ective standardization and conformity assurance in Eswatini.
Mission
We provide and promote internationally recognized quality standards and conformity assessment services to improve business performance, minimize health and safety risks and ensure environmental integrity in collaboration with regulators.

ESWASA Accreditation
Eswatini Standards Authority ­ Management Systems Certification Services is accredited by the Southern African Development Community Accreditation Service (SADCAS).

ESWASA is a member of the following international organizations:

Scopes: Quality Management Systems to ISO/IEC 17021-1:2015 and ISO/IEC 170213:2017 (Certification to ISO 9001:2015), IAF Codes 3, 12, 13 and 38

#ImprovingTheWorldWeLiveIn

ESWASA Services
MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS CERTIFICATION
PRODUCT CERTIFICATION
SCALES & METROLOGY SERVICES
STANDARDS DEVELOPMENT& SALES
PRODUCT TESTING SERVICES
STANDARDS - BASED TRAINING
INFORMATION CENTRE / WTO ENQUIRY POINT
#ImprovingTheWorldWeLiveIn

Certification
The core business of the ESWASA Certification department is the provision of an independent, third-party conformity assessment service for systems and products, in accordance with requirements of ISO/IEC 17021 for management systems certification and ISO/IEC 17065 for product certification.

Certification Process

The department mainly focuses on Management Systems Certification, Ingelo Certification, Product Certification (ESWASA Mark), Testing Services, and Scales and Metrology Services.

ESWASA clients in this division range from large globally recognised organizations with successful brands to local small businesses.

Businesses with ESWASA Certification benefit from a competitive edge, greater access to local and international trade opportunities and increased market access. They achieve organisational objectives and manage their risks.

ESWASA's Certifications portfolio currently includes:

ü SZNS ISO 9001 

Quality Management Systems

ü SZNS ISO 14001 

Environmental Management

ü SZNS ISO 22000  ü SZNS ISO 45001 

Systems Food Safety Management Systems Occupational Health& Safety

ü SZNS SANS 10330

Management Systems Hazard Analysis and Critical Control

Points

ü SZNS SANS 542:2020 

Concrete Roofing Tiles

ü SZNS CODEXSTAN 306:2015 Chilli Sauce Specifications

ü SZNS CODEXSTAN 12:1981Honey

ü SZNS 006:2011 

Liquid Soap specification

More certifications can be added to the portfolio informed by interest indicated by clients.

#ImprovingTheWorldWeLiveIn

Scales & Metrology Services (SZNS ISO/IEC 17025)
We understand the importance of accurate and reliable measurements for your business. That is why we strive to provide the best calibration services available.
Our team of highly skilled technicians provide you with exceptional scale sales, service, repairs, installations, and calibration of all weighing equipment, weighbridges, and metrology equipment.
We utilise only the finest industry-standard equipment and procedures to ensure that all your measuring and testing instruments consistently function at their best, remaining accurate and reliable.
Services under ESWASA Metrology Laboratory: 1. Calibration of all Electronic scales 2. Calibration of all Mechanical scales 3. Repair, Service and Sales of all Scales and Weighbridges 4. Calibration and service of all Automatic and manual Gas filling Scales
Testing Services
(SZNS ISO/IEC 17025)
ESWASA is committed to ensuring the quality of products.
We are readily available to assist in the facilitating testing of commodities through the selection of accredited laboratories around Africa and the World, that will best cater for the required scopes of products of interest.
ü Measure the e ects of ageing on products
ü Monitor potential threats from competing products
ü Evaluate durability, safety, and compliance with standards
ü Overcome Trade Barriers ü Provides evidence in legal
proceedings
#ImprovingTheWorldWeLiveIn

Standards
The ESWASA Standards Department has vast experience in its core function, namely, the development of Eswatini National Standards (SZNS) and maximising the benefits of international standards through adoption, which enhances the competitiveness of the Eswatini industry and advances regional and international trade.
Benefits of Standards:
Ř ensure that consumers have easier access to and greater choice in goods and services.
Ř ensure improved quality and reliability. Ř ensure better operation and compatibility between products and services. Ř ensure improved quality and reliability. Ř ensure better operation and compatibility between products and services. Standards are designed for voluntary use and do not impose any regulations. However, laws and regulations may reference certain standards and make compliance with them compulsory.

Standards Development Process

Standards are a collective work, whereby Committees of manufacturers, users, research organizations, government departments and consumers work together to draw up standards that evolve to meet the demands of society and technology. Technical Collaboration https://tc.swasa.co.sz

ŘSTAGE 0 ­ Preliminary Stage ŘSTAGE 1 ­ Proposal Stage ŘSTAGE 2 ­ Preparatory Stage ŘSTAGE 3 ­ Committee Stage ŘSTAGE 4 - Enquiry Stage ŘSTAGE 5 - Disposal of Comments Stage ŘSTAGE 6 - Approval Stage

0 Preliminary Stage 1

Proposal Stage

2 Preparatory Stage 3

Committee Stage

Enquiry Stage

4 5

Disposal of Comments Stage

ŘSTAGE 7 - Endorsement Stage ŘSTAGE 8 - Publication Stage

Approval Stage

6 7

Endorsement Stage

Standard Sales

8 Publication Stage

SZNS Standard Sales through the Authority's o ice assistance or conveniently Online. WEBSTORE - https://estore.swasa.co.sz/ WEBSITE - www.swasa.co.sz

ESWASA sells Eswatini National Standards (SZNS) as well as related documents and specifications. Our services extend to sourcing other international and/or foreign standards for you, such as SANS, ARSO, ISO and IEC standards.
#ImprovingTheWorldWeLiveIn

Standards-based Training
We understand the unique needs of each business, which is why we o er tailor-made training solutions to industry, individuals, government agencies and other Institutions in Management Systems, allowing organisations to choose a convenient location or host the training at our training centre in Matsapha.
At ESWASA Training Academy, we are proud to work with facilitators who are industry experts in various fields, Lead Auditors, and major contributors to the development of Eswatini National Standards (SZNS).
We o er a diverse portfolio of training courses: ü SZNS ISO 9001:2015 - Quality Management Systems ü SZNS ISO 14001:2015 - Environmental Management Systems ü SZNS ISO 45001:2018 - Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems ü SZNS ISO 22000: 2018 - Food Safety Management Systems ü SZNS SANS 10330: 2020 ­ Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points ü SZNS ISO 19011: 2018 ­ Auditing Management Systems ü Global GAP ü Integrated Management Systems ü Risk Management ü Business Continuity ü Wellness Management ü Other tailor-made Standards-based training
Information Centre
The ESWASA National Enquiry Point holds the collection of national, regional and international standards.
We welcome Students, Researchers, Industry professionals and the general public to make use of our center.
The enquiry point is a channel for mitigating problems businesses face in obtaining information on standards, technical regulations, and conformity assessment procedures for the access of their products in international markets thus eliminating Technical Barriers to Trade.

eliminating

Technical

.

Barriers to

Trade

#ImprovingTheWorldWeLiveIn

Head O ice
Plot 247, Marbel Construction Premises, King Mswati III Avenue West Matsapha Industrial Site Tel: (+268) 2518 4633/ 4610
Mail:
P. O. Box 1399, Matsapha, Eswatini
Website:
www.swasa.co.sz info@swasa.co.sz

Metrology Laboratory
King Sobhuza II Avenue Matsapha Crescent, Opposite YKK Zippers Matsapha Industrial Site Tel: (+268) 2518 6633

