The Eswatini Standards Authority (ESWASA) is a parastatal organisation within the Ministry of Commerce, Industry, and Trade that the Eswatini government established under the Standards and Quality Act (10) 2003. ESWASA is mandated by this Act to advance quality and standards in local
businesses, government, and industry.
VISION The outstanding service provider in quality
standards for competitiveness.
MISSION We provide internationally recognised quality standards and conformity assessment services to improve business performance and promote
trade.
ESWASA Management Systems Certification Services is accredited by the Southern African Development Community Accreditation Service (SADCAS).
Scopes: Quality Management Systems to ISO/ IEC 17021-1:2015 and ISO/IEC 17021-3:2017 (Certification to ISO 9001:2015), IAF Codes 3, 12,
13 and 38

ESWASA is a member of the following international organizations:
King Sobhuza II Avenue Matsapha Crescent, Opposite YKK Zippers Matsapha Industrial Site (+268) 2518 6633 (+268) 2518 4633 / 4610 pmkhwanazi@swasa.co.sz info@swasa.co.sz www.swasa.co.sz P.O. Box 1399, Matsapha, Eswatini
WEBSTER PRINT ( 2404 0048

ESWASA SCALES AND METROLOGY SERVICES
ACCURATE MEASURMENT FOR A SAFER WORLD

We understand the importance of accurate and reliable measurements for your business. That is why we strive to provide the best calibration services available. Our team of highly skilled technicians is dedicated to providing you with exceptional scale sales, service, repairs, installations, and calibration of all weighing equipment, weighbridges, and metrology equipment. We utilise only the finest industry-standard equipment and procedures to ensure that all your measuring and testing instruments consistently function at their best, remaining accurate and reliable.
Metrology Services offers a comprehensive range of scale sales, services, repairs, installations, and calibrations of all weighing equipment, weighbridges, and metrology equipment. We also provide specialised quick calibration services for various industries, including manufacturing equipment. Our team of experts uses state-of-the-art calibration equipment, following industry-standard procedures to ensure that your equipment operates at its best, with the highest accuracy and reliability.

OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES INCLUDE:
V Scale Sales V Scales, Hoppers and Weighbridges Servicing
and Repairs V In-house and On-site Calibration V Preventative Maintenance programmes V Installation of Scales, Hoppers and
Weighbridges

WHAT IS CALIBRATION?
Calibration is the process of checking, by comparison with a standard, the accuracy of measuring instruments of any type, such as a pressure gauge or an industrial thermometer. It may also include adjustments to the instrument to match the standard.
Calibration of your temperature and pressure instruments has two objectives. It checks the accuracy of the instrument, and it determines the traceability of the measurement. In practice, calibration may also include repair of the device if it is out of calibration. A report is provided by the calibration technician, which shows the error in measurements with the measuring device before and after the calibration.
PURPOSE OF CALIBRATION
Correct and reliable measurements are prerequisites for all high-quality industrial production. V To ensure Measurement Accuracy V To comply with Industrial Standards V To ensure Equipment Traceability V To improve Instrument Reliability V To enhance Product Quality and Safety V To reduce Downtime

